curator/README.md, before:

# Curator

Curator allows the admin to remove old indices from Elasticsearch on a per-project
basis.  The pod will read its configuration from a mounted yaml file that
is structured like this:

    PROJECT_NAME:
      ACTION:
        UNIT: VALUE

    PROJECT_NAME:
      ACTION:
        UNIT: VALUE          
     ...      

* PROJECT\_NAME - the actual name of a project - "myapp-devel"
** For operations logs, use the name `.operations` as the project name
* ACTION - the action to take - currently only "delete"
* UNIT - one of "days", "weeks", or "months" 
* VALUE - an integer for the number of units 
* `.defaults` - use `.defaults` as the PROJECT\_NAME to set the defaults for
projects that are not specified
** runhour: NUMBER - hour of the day in 24 hour format at which to run the 
curator jobs
** runminute: NUMBER - minute of the hour at which to run the curator jobs
** timezone: REQUIRED - String in tzselect(8) or timedatectl(1) format

*NOTE* timezone or CURATOR_RUN_TIMEZONE is **REQUIRED**.  This is because the
curator pod timezone could be different from the node timezone, the master
timezone, and/or the timezone where the admin is entering the curator
configuration.  If you are not sure what is the curator pod timezone, or what
timezone string you should use, you can check::

    # oc get pods -l component=curator # get the pod name
    # oc exec $pod -- date +%Z%z
    UTC+0000
    # tzselect - this will give you an interactive way to choose a timezone string
    # timedatectl list-timezones - this will give you a list of all timezone strings

For example, using::

    myapp-dev:
     delete:
       days: 1
    
    myapp-qe:
      delete:
        weeks: 1
    
    .operations:
      delete:
        weeks: 8
    
    .defaults:
      delete:
        days: 30
      runhour: 0
      runminute: 0
      timezone: America/New_York
    ...

Every day, curator will run, and will delete indices in the myapp-dev project
older than 1 day, and indices in the myapp-qe project older than 1 week.  All
other projects will have their indices deleted after they are 30 days old.  The
curator jobs will run every day at midnight in the America/New\_York timezone,
regardless of geographical location where the pod is running, or the timezone
setting of the pod, host, etc.

*WARNING*: Using `months` as the unit

When you use month based trimming, curator starts counting at the _first_ day of
the current month, not the _current_ day of the current month.  For example, if
today is April 15, and you want to delete indices that are 2 months older than
today (`delete: months: 2`), curator doesn't delete indices that are dated
older than February 15, it deletes indices older than _February 1_.  That is,
it goes back to the first day of the current month, _then_ goes back two whole
months from that date.
If you want to be exact with curator, it is best to use `days` e.g. `delete: days: 30`
[Curator issue](https://github.com/elastic/curator/issues/569)

To create the curator configuration, do the following:

Create a yaml file with your configuration settings using your favorite editor.
Next create a secret from your created yaml file:
`oc secrets new index-management config.yaml=</path/to/your/yaml/file>`

Then mount your created secret as a volume in your Curator DC:
`oc volumes dc/<curator dc name> --add --type=secret --secret-name=curator-config --mount-path=/etc/curator/settings --name=config --overwrite`

You can also specify default values for the run hour, run minute, and age in
days of the indices when processing the curator template.  Use
`CURATOR_RUN_HOUR` and `CURATOR_RUN_MINUTE` to set the default runhour and
runminute, `CURATOR_RUN_TIMEZONE` to set the run timezone, and use
`CURATOR_DEFAULT_DAYS` to set the default index age in days. These are only
used if not specified in the config file.

Commit message:

curator date/times are with respect to the curator pod timezone
https://github.com/openshift/origin-integration-common/issues/13
Make the timezone optional.  The default timezone will be the timezone
of the curator pod, which by default will be the timezone of the
node.

curator/README.md, after:

# Curator

Curator allows the admin to remove old indices from Elasticsearch on a per-project
basis.  The pod will read its configuration from a mounted yaml file that
is structured like this:

    PROJECT_NAME:
      ACTION:
        UNIT: VALUE

    PROJECT_NAME:
      ACTION:
        UNIT: VALUE          
     ...      

* PROJECT\_NAME - the actual name of a project - "myapp-devel"
** For operations logs, use the name `.operations` as the project name
* ACTION - the action to take - currently only "delete"
* UNIT - one of "days", "weeks", or "months" 
* VALUE - an integer for the number of units 
* `.defaults` - use `.defaults` as the PROJECT\_NAME to set the defaults for
projects that are not specified
** runhour: NUMBER - hour of the day in 24 hour format at which to run the 
curator jobs
** runminute: NUMBER - minute of the hour at which to run the curator jobs
** timezone: STRING - String in tzselect(8) or timedatectl(1) format - the
   default timezone is the timezone of the curator pod, which by default should
   be the timezone of the node

The curator pod should use the same timezone as its node.  If you are not sure
what is the curator pod timezone, or what timezone string you should use, you
can check::

    # oc get pods -l component=curator # get the pod name
    # oc exec $pod -- date +%Z%z
    UTC+0000
    # tzselect - this will give you an interactive way to choose a timezone string
    # timedatectl list-timezones - this will give you a list of all timezone strings

For example, using::

    myapp-dev:
     delete:
       days: 1
    
    myapp-qe:
      delete:
        weeks: 1
    
    .operations:
      delete:
        weeks: 8
    
    .defaults:
      delete:
        days: 30
      runhour: 0
      runminute: 0
      timezone: America/New_York
    ...

Every day, curator will run, and will delete indices in the myapp-dev project
older than 1 day, and indices in the myapp-qe project older than 1 week.  All
other projects will have their indices deleted after they are 30 days old.  The
curator jobs will run every day at midnight in the `America/New_York` timezone,
regardless of geographical location where the pod is running, or the timezone
setting of the pod, host, etc.

*WARNING*: Using `months` as the unit

When you use month based trimming, curator starts counting at the _first_ day of
the current month, not the _current_ day of the current month.  For example, if
today is April 15, and you want to delete indices that are 2 months older than
today (`delete: months: 2`), curator doesn't delete indices that are dated
older than February 15, it deletes indices older than _February 1_.  That is,
it goes back to the first day of the current month, _then_ goes back two whole
months from that date.
If you want to be exact with curator, it is best to use `days` e.g. `delete: days: 30`
[Curator issue](https://github.com/elastic/curator/issues/569)

To create the curator configuration, do the following:

Create a yaml file with your configuration settings using your favorite editor.
Next create a secret from your created yaml file:
`oc secrets new index-management config.yaml=</path/to/your/yaml/file>`

Then mount your created secret as a volume in your Curator DC:
`oc volumes dc/<curator dc name> --add --type=secret --secret-name=curator-config --mount-path=/etc/curator/settings --name=config --overwrite`

You can also specify default values for the run hour, run minute, and age in
days of the indices when processing the curator template.  Use
`CURATOR_RUN_HOUR` and `CURATOR_RUN_MINUTE` to set the default runhour and
runminute, `CURATOR_RUN_TIMEZONE` to set the run timezone, and use
`CURATOR_DEFAULT_DAYS` to set the default index age in days. These are only
used if not specified in the config file.
